DEV-NOTES.md, before:

# Development Notes

Some notes and ideas about the development of the project.

## Preparation for multi-lingual support

- [ ] Extract generation of course specs into separate module
  - Class `DirectoryKind` that specifies
    - whether to recurse into subdirectories when generating the course spec
    - how files contained directly in this directory are to be classified
    - possibly how roles are assigned to subdirectories
  - Protocol `CourseLayout` that maps each directory into a `DirectoryKind`
    - Maybe we need multiple roles for a single directory
      - e.g., if we have roles for `image-soure` and `image-output` folders
        then we may want to assign both roles to the same directory
  - Protocol `CourseLayout`
    - `label_for` method that takes a `Path` and returns a `Document` type
    - `Path` should be a directory (or even a larger structure) so that we can 
       identify dependencies. For example, if a `.drawio` file is present,
       a `.png` or `.svg` file with the same name is a generated file.
    - But maybe we can also move the tracking of generated files into a separate
      step.
    - `label_for` needs additional information, in particular, a course layout
- [ ] Track dependencies between documents
  - References/includes: `D1` → `D2`
    - `D1` needs `D2` to be present in the generated output
    - `D2` should not appear in the course spec
    - If `D2` is generated, its sources should not appear in the course spec
  - Generated from: `D1` → `D2` (`Gen`)
    - `D1` is generated from `D2` using a generator `Gen`
    - `D2` should not appear in the course spec
- [ ] Build a task graph based on the dependency information
  - `Task` as an abstraction of something that needs to be done
  - Tasks may depend on the results of other tasks
    - Dependent tasks may thus be scheduled only after the dependencies have
      been completed
  - Tasks may generate other tasks that have to be scheduled later
    - e.g., the task to generate a notebook can not be scheduled until the
      order of files in its directory is known and the file name has been
      assigned (since the name includes the file position and is generated)
      from the contents of the file
    - We might generate incomplete tasks whose information is filled in by
      other tasks. E.g. the `build notebook` task might be generated as soon
      as we find the notebook file, but the missing information might not
      be filled in right away.

Commit message:

Add some more dev notes

DEV-NOTES.md, after:

# Development Notes

Some notes and ideas about the development of the project.

## Structure for GUI support

- Maybe introduce the following abstractions:
  - Data sources: files from which we read data
  - Data sinks/outputs: files into which we write data
  - Content Node: mapping from data sources to data sinks
    - Corresponds to a single output notebook/slide deck
  - Document: A file containing data to be parsed by the system
    - Associated with a single data source
    - Will probably give rise to additional data in a Content Node via 
      dependencies and sinks 
  - Lecture: A special kind of Content Node generated from a single Document
  - Module: a collection of lectures about a topic
  - Course: a collection of Lectures and Modules
  - Course spec: a description of the files that make up the course
    - Should only include some of the sources necessary for the course
    - Dependent sources and sinks should be derived from the Lectures
      in the course
  - Output spec: a description of the output that should be generated

## Preparation for multi-lingual support

- [x] Extract generation of course specs into separate module
  - Class `DirectoryKind` that specifies
    - whether to recurse into subdirectories when generating the course spec
    - how files contained directly in this directory are to be classified
    - possibly how roles are assigned to subdirectories
  - Protocol `CourseLayout` that maps each directory into a `DirectoryKind`
    - Maybe we need multiple roles for a single directory
      - e.g., if we have roles for `image-soure` and `image-output` folders
        then we may want to assign both roles to the same directory
  - Protocol `CourseLayout`
    - `label_for` method that takes a `Path` and returns a `Document` type
    - `Path` should be a directory (or even a larger structure) so that we can 
       identify dependencies. For example, if a `.drawio` file is present,
       a `.png` or `.svg` file with the same name is a generated file.
    - But maybe we can also move the tracking of generated files into a separate
      step.
    - `label_for` needs additional information, in particular, a course layout
- [ ] Track dependencies between documents
  - References/includes: `D1` → `D2`
    - `D1` needs `D2` to be present in the generated output
    - `D2` should not appear in the course spec
    - If `D2` is generated, its sources should not appear in the course spec
  - Generated from: `D1` → `D2` (`Gen`)
    - `D1` is generated from `D2` using a generator `Gen`
    - `D2` should not appear in the course spec
- [ ] Build a task graph based on the dependency information
  - `Task` as an abstraction of something that needs to be done
  - Tasks may depend on the results of other tasks
    - Dependent tasks may thus be scheduled only after the dependencies have
      been completed
  - Tasks may generate other tasks that have to be scheduled later
    - e.g., the task to generate a notebook can not be scheduled until the
      order of files in its directory is known and the file name has been
      assigned (since the name includes the file position and is generated)
      from the contents of the file
    - We might generate incomplete tasks whose information is filled in by
      other tasks. E.g. the `build notebook` task might be generated as soon
      as we find the notebook file, but the missing information might not
      be filled in right away.
